[Multiple hosts] (Visual Studio) Update guidance related to developing add-ins with Visual Studio. (#1514)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/develop/develop-add-ins-visual-studio.md

---
title: Develop Office Add-ins with Visual Studio
description: How to develop Office Add-ins with Visual Studio
ms.date: 12/28/2019
localization_priority: Priority
---

# Develop Office Add-ins with Visual Studio

This article describes how to use Visual Studio to develop an Office Add-in. If you've already created your add-in, you can skip ahead to the [Develop the add-in using Visual Studio](#develop-the-add-in-using-visual-studio) section.

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: Is it worth adding that Yeoman is a better choice if you are more familiar with Node.js as well

Author: It's probably okay to omit this info here, since the other article that's linked to from this note contains info that says Yeoman creates a Node.js project.

> As an alternative to using Visual Studio, you may choose to use the Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins and VS Code to create an Office Add-in. For more information about this choice, see [Creating an Office Add-in](../overview/office-add-ins-fundamentals.md#creating-an-office-add-in).

## Create the add-in project using Visual Studio

Visual Studio can be used to create Office Add-ins for Excel, Outlook, Word, and PowerPoint. An Office Add-in project gets created as part of a Visual Studio solution and uses HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. To create an Office Add-in with Visual Studio, follow instructions in the quick start that corresponds to the add-in you'd like to create:

- [Excel quick start](../quickstarts/excel-quickstart-jquery.md?tabs=visualstudio)
- [Outlook quick start](/outlook/add-ins/quick-start?context=office/dev/add-ins/context&tabs=visualstudio)
- [Word quick start](../quickstarts/word-quickstart.md?tabs=visualstudio)
- [PowerPoint quick start](../quickstarts/powerpoint-quickstart.md?tabs=visualstudio)

> Visual Studio does not support creating Office Add-ins for OneNote or Project. To create Office Add-ins for either of these hosts, you'll need to use the Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins, as described in the [OneNote quick start](../quickstarts/onenote-quickstart.md) or the [Project quick start](../quickstarts/project-quickstart.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visual Studio doesn't support creating Office Add-ins for OneNote or Project. To create Office Add-ins for either of these hosts, you'll need to use the Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins, as described in the [OneNote quick start](../quickstarts/onenote-quickstart.md) or the [Project quick start](../quickstarts/project-quickstart.md).
```

## Develop the add-in using Visual Studio

Visual Studio creates a basic add-in with limited functionality. You can customize the add-in by editing the [manifest](add-in-manifests.md), HTML, JavaScript, and CSS files in Visual Studio. For a high-level description of the project structure and files in the add-in project that Visual Studio creates, see the Visual Studio guidance within the quick start that you completed to create your add-in. 

> [!TIP]

> > Because an Office Add-in is a web application, you'll need at least basic web development skills to customize your add-in. If you're new to JavaScript, we recommend reviewing the [Mozilla JavaScript tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Introduction).

Reviewer: Is it worth combining this tip with the one about Yeoman above? Both approaches would require JS - just trying to figure out a way to get the "you need to know JS" closer to the top of the page.

Author: Hmmmmm...IMO, this info doesn't really fit with the contents of the note at the top of the page -- it addresses an entirely separate point/topic than the note about Yeoman does. Let's leave this tip where it is for now, and we can reevaluate if we receive feedback that indicates it'd be more helpful to customers earlier on in the article.

To customize your add-in, you'll need to understand concepts described in the [Core concepts > Develop](develop-overview.md) area of this documentation, as well as concepts described in the host-specific area of documentation that corresponds to the add-in you're building (for example, [Excel](../excel/index.md)). 

## Test and debug the add-in

Methods for testing, debugging, and troubleshooting Office Add-ins vary by platform. For more information, see [Debug Office Add-ins in Visual Studio](debug-office-add-ins-in-visual-studio.md) and [Test and debug Office Add-ins](../testing/test-debug-office-add-ins.md).

> ## Publish the add-in

Reviewer: I like this section, I feel like it is a lot more clear than previous iterations on this topic
